I owned 400 acres you know as a young
person coming on the land I could not
believe that nobody wanted this we came
on the land and there was no water no
roads no bridges there was nothing but
there were trees right here was a tree
I cut the tree and I made it fall I
created stresses into what's called the
hinge here and it went perfect boom the
top broke and that tree went down
halfway down on that ledge I said oh
we're in trouble there's no way in the
world gonna lift this thing up I tied a
chain up on the tree up there and I have
this world work to winch as is okay
Fenner a you and I will get on here get
one two three jump and we jump so then
we just cranked it up and we built our
bridge on top of the log it's been there
like 40 years everything on this farm
that you'll see there was nothing here
we never hired help you got to remember
we came on the land well yet absolutely
no money this costs eighty five hundred
dollars to build and so even doorknobs
see we made our own doorknobs the size
of the house dependent on the trees
there's no outside we integrate the
whole thing I had no choice I wanted to
tuck it in and I got the house I could I
couldn't decide on how big the house was
I didn't make that decision I just
tucked there right into the and that way
it becomes a part of it
you know we made the doors now we cut
the lumber everything but all of the
wood here's Redwood right off the farm
we never hired out we poured the
concrete build the windows we did the
whole works and you know limitations are
not necessarily bad
they actually inspire creation because
if you can go to store and buy it it's
too easy to just buy it if you can't buy
it then you have to make it so this is
sort of a personal expression of an
artistic form and we did it for us to
live in now this is a third house we
first built the little cabin and we did
that in 5 1/2 days we got a cab because
my wife was five months pregnant
$2,800 built this that got us through
for 15 years children grew up and they
were there then we went to a
three-bedroom house the trees grew up
around us and we didn't have much sky so
one day I sat down here and I says this
is where I want to build the house yeah
I had absolutely no idea of what I was
going to do and I looked up there and I
said oh there's the sky
there's the trees I want that point of
reference to be the beginning of the
house so I said okay I want this curve
because orientation and everything is
perfect
and so then boom in one second that's
established so then I get up and I look
up here and I said oh I don't want that
ceiling to be that high and coming this
way
so I said let's bring it down to human
scale then I turn around I say oh I want
to look uphill 20 seconds the whole
house was designed but see what's
interesting about this kind of thing is
that we had the sawmill we had the
lumber all this we harvested then our
and I were the laborers within the kind
that was every element required to come
from start to finish we were able to do
the whole house without help without
contractors without anybody so what
happens when you go from concept to
completion without external elements
there's a personal sort of expression
that you will not get if you have to
have other people involved okay you okay
you know it's real pretty looking up
there when it's raining
it looks like the rains are gonna come
right on your head and you're there you
kind of duck a bit red go down there so
nice this is so cool you know you're
sitting here it's so different but you
know what's interesting I've had two or
three people over 20 years that cannot
stand this house too much glass don't
drapes so you know I'm looking at it I'm
thinking you know what's the problem
spiderwebs you know and you know they're
beautiful now these boards the full of
knots and cracks and it doesn't matter
because the wood is not being used in
tension in compression it's being used
as stretching and pushing so the wood is
doing this and it has 10 times more
strength going this way and being trying
to pull it apart than it is to try to
bend it the boards are not the same
thickness the same width they don't have
to match up so this is four layers
there's no beams four layers of boards
that make up this diaphragm and you know
the the parabolic forms are so fantastic
in terms of structure they're so strong
because the curved form is what gives it
the strength an egg is very strong
because of the shape a boat oh yeah or a
car on automobiles all these curved
shapes they're intentional they're to
give it strength because they have a
thin
material and they're getting the
strength through the curvature so it
buildings the economical you know the
Romans were doing this it goes back to
Mesopotamia they did arches way back I
mean here for the individual in the
woods like this you could build a little
arch and you could actually fill it with
ten feet of dirt and you could make a
underground house quite easy without a
lot of structure to hold it together see
again I got the ground coming up right
here and I like to hide the toilet so
I'm back here on the toilet and it's
kind of back and see even though it's
all open you feel a sense of privacy and
then I like the mirror so basically
extends the space double so even in the
bathroom you didn't worry about privacy
no what do you got you some deer scene
you have you come on this is the kitchen
now I always like to have the kitchen
where the ground comes up to the kitchen
though we have pet deer that come and
lie down right here they love to watch
us a little fun we'll jump over and he'd
be here and we're washing dishes and
she's right there with her face and I
always like to bring the ground up to
the kitchen level sink I also like to
keep the silk I like to bring it right
down the sink and now you're you're like
a child you see the ground as a child
sees it when a grown up you're always
looking down it's nice to look parallel
and see the tree and see the ground and
see the leaves as a child like you know
so these are all made this is a this is
a dowel and this is a piece of copper
pipe so I made the handle that way and
the drawer has got a slider on it and
you just the drawers open up and you
know these then try to use the lighters
in the corner I made a door that was
connected rather than
door half-and-half I made most of the
houses I made my own redwood all red
wood by the way this is redwood I really
like wood cutting boards built-in so
basically you go from water
chop chop down to the stove but here I
did the pizza oven and it's preheated so
this is a with stones but it has Vince
from the stove from the outside to
preheat it I put in this wall a chimney
so I had no money to buy a stove so I
have a junkyard down there with a bunch
of steel
I needed a stove so what I do is I go
down to junkyard and I'm looking at him
stove stove stove oh yeah I saw this
pipe it was like 30 feet long and I said
there's my stove so this is a greenhouse
in the fall winter and spring and this
extends a garden now this broccoli plant
is three years old and I just picked a
cluster of broccoli off of it see these
are snap beans delicious well the thing
is it's so nice you just walk down like
this morning I came down and I got some
cryptic zucchini yeah right here there's
another one out to harvest and then I
got some bell pepper I got some broccoli
and then went out and I made an omelet
for us to have breakfast right and so
you just take it here so also it's
sunken in the ground so from the house
we don't see it well yeah well in a
winger being sunk in the ground and
never freezes in here so I've had
Tomatoes year-round so your idea was to
get out here and be self-sufficient
right food-wise yeah you know we went
three months without ever shopping see
the sustainability that I envision the
climate here such with the greenhouses
you could do a 75% for sure
I think that we need to think in those
terms of becoming self-sustaining in
food production in energy and
financially we get those three elements
in place and we could have a good life
but you have to have some money and you
have to have energy so solar hears about
there would be a potential of doing
hydraulic from from the river there'd be
a power in it without hurting anything
but the laws long allowed now those are
solar panels they heat up the hot water
for showers and hot water for the house
through solar hot water this is twenty
five why it's a closed system so it
doesn't take a whole lot of power and so
I'm circulating the water here to a
water tank on the roof no no solar we
went 25 years without refrigeration
17 years without a telephone or even
more we had to put our own phone line
for two and a half miles from the
nearest neighbor and we had a sitting on
the ground and we had mice and bear
chill in the line and I had to service
it myself this is the first house we
built here it was beautiful
it's kind of had it today this whole
thing in five half days we built the
whole thing with five people $2800 built
this we did 15 years here the children
who grew up in here you know we didn't
have disposable diapers we had caught
diapers so she had a little basin the
kids would bathe there by the window
wash the diapers
we had a wringer washer machine to wash
I built a rack right here and hang the
clothes in the winter on the clothesline
and then each of us would grab the rope
and we'd lift the clothes up there and
they'd ride up there no big deal we had
nineteen years we had a composting
toilet in the barn this was very very
comfortable it had a 50 gallon drum for
a stove here and he had a ladder going
up and there's a big room up there why
did you decide to do this shape well it
was the easiest and most of that lease
expand this four by eight module these
frames these frames were built one on
top of the other there's 10 of them
here's one frame that's complete now
it's got a it's got two beams going
across here to bolt it here and that's
got two below that are bolted across and
then it's got one on top four foot
module basically so there's no waste of
lumber so what happened we built these
one on top of the other all bolted so
see this is four foot and eight foot is
right here from here down so that's four
you bought a man already with the white
on it so we didn't have to paint it it's
just fiber board it's insulated board
I don't know well lumberyard then we
with these guys here and they're four by
eight so they do movement within I don't
know a half a day we had all the sides
up and then these two by threes went on
over that and then insulation went down
just sheets were rolled down whoo and
then the tin was put over the top of
that and we had a wall complete and the
roof same thing I mean it was so easy
I'd never built a house that was so easy
to build as this a half-day's
five people we had all the frames up
then we had to come in with a glass now
like I told you I don't design I follow
logic so I had to brace this wall from
tipping so the first thing without
knowing what I'm gonna do I put a brace
in room now I got it brace then I wanted
a door because I wanted to walk out here
so I determined the door so the door I
picked this size two doors and so then
that determined the vertical here well I
got this vertically here it was logical
to go from here this corner that so I
got that corner
then this pain was too big for the glass
I decided to cut it in half so I put
this here and that there so then that
that duplicated and that's the whole
design was it designed itself by
following a logical sequence and doing
what was necessary for Charcot integrity
simplicity simply is difficult it's easy
to make things complex in but doing
simple and and you know inexpensive not
necessarily see what we just chopped it
off cuz all the heat goes up by chopping
it off yeah this is affordable this is
the most space for the least expense
that I ever have done to the volume if
there wasn't that much the heat and then
the most wonderful thing for us here we
had my gas light we never had
electricity and my wife and I we'd be
here and the boys would sit there and
books reading that was our entertainment
they learned to read when they're like 3
to 4 years old now the stove is a
interesting stove very inexpensive
probably the cheapest thing of goodbye
top loaded and it has vents on the side
so you put your wood in and tubes go
down that's kind of like a rocket so and
the wood was put in and so we got the
chimney going out and that's what kept
us warm we actually cooked on here and
dried made toast and whatnot gas stove
and now we did 52 loaves of bread a
month baked all our bread but anyway so
you know we slip up after school well
when we say homeschooled and we did the
3 R's they didn't do much more than we
did some geography we did calligraphy we
thought calligraphy was important you
know the people don't have color
anymore yeah there you go we taught him
how to read early and so then that was
and then they went out to milk goats at
five years old they took over all the
chores they were out at seven o'clock in
the morning with a lantern there was a
goat shed and each one had a goat to
milk their schooling was ninety percent
out of doors well yeah
four hundred acres you know how much I
own to the top of the mountain here I go
about a mile that way top of the
mountain there and halfway up the
mountain behind me that's huge
did you buy the land from there's a
whole story there it starts with Union
Lumber Company they owned or the whole
forest for hundreds of miles around here
and back in 1906 they had logged a lot
of the old-growth up north and TL
Johnson was second generation or
something so he owned this and he found
a market for the old-growth timber so
every one of these clusters has or had a
series of trees who are like five six
foot diameter and so he come in and he
cut every one of them see where we talk
about the logging the original logging
so what this is a railroad grade so they
hauled all the trees out by train so
they had tracks as a railroad track went
down here tried to cross and the trees
they took them down from the mountain
they rolled what they did is they caught
up and they rolled them down the hill
the whole tree like that blow blow over
the trees like this they rolled them
down from the top to get him down you
know what they did all of these trees
went for a railroad ties for Chile and
Argentina to make railroads all the big
redwoods and these trees were like 10 11
feet and they're huge and then the the
train with they were able to do rigging
where they could pick up these logs and
put them on the train but they they they
did horrible damage to the forest what
they did man tries to make the most
profit for the least amount of work so
they cut the trees in the spring all the
needles and the branches have dried
during the summer and then they set the
hotel forests on fire and they did this
like 810 years in a row because they
wanted to burn the leaves and the
branches so it make it easier for them
to get the trees out and they completely
change the ecology of the forest by
doing that process that was the trees
they cut in 1960 nineteen
there were two here but the original
tree might have been something back
there this like say these are clones
these are these are fairy rings Azhar
called all of these trees are feeding
off of the original and they're all
clones the original trees were this
stump here and that stump there and
there's a couple behind they cut those
and then out sprout regeneration of
redwoods there's two ways from seed and
also from sucker growth you see all
these little babies here have a
potential become a giant tree so nature
there's a little space here to get a
little light because I cut some branches
womb it's trying to build and this is
incredible growth this is like one year
from here to here because it's feeding
off the old Trump now that tree is
probably not much more than a hundred
years old
and if we were to release some of the
competition around it in 50 years it
would be like this it would be like
twice the size of that so anyway these
are growing while this would be saved
this would be saved
you take one to those two out and you
take two more out and by doing that to
get photosynthesis you have to have
growth and by thinning you're gonna get
more photosynthesis carbon oxygen
exchange you're gonna get more of it by
cutting trees out then if you don't cut
up so people say oh you cut redwoods
well your could be cutting them
detrimental E or you could be cutting
embed efficiently for the ecology of for
the force
so there's extremes human beings go to
extremes in whatever they do the redwood
tree you got the environmentalists
needle like cutting any trees and then
you had the industry that cuts the ball
and they're cutting trees they shouldn't
cut there's the original tree was in
this space we're talking probably 20,000
years ago ten thousand years ago and it
rotted so these are clones this is a
second third generation the second or
third generation and this probably third
or fourth generation so it's happening
the conditions for growing redwoods
nature is enhancing and so the trees are
getting bigger and bigger and better
than they were before
humankind when we manage things we
deplete the resource and we don't put
back what we take out these are all
children these are genetically the same
tree all this whole bunch here and that
one there is a child of this one here
and look at how much eat uh
photosynthesis this tree it saves so
much carbon right and look there's a
tree now growing on top of the rotten
stump so now it's feeding that's an oak
tree that's growing on top pretty
awesome now here again we're not going
to touch these but if you were to cut
that one and that one and that one
within 50 years these trees would be
enormous they'd be like that I did
what's called a non industrial timber
management plan so every fifth acre
every tree was measured for the - the
diameter and so that an inventory was
gained and so by the inventory you can
get the growth rate so now you know how
many board feet a year per acre is
gained with the growth rate I planted
40,000 trees in the forest and 40,000
see I earn my living with Christmas
trees so there were 40,000 trees that we
harvested a thousand six-hundred every
year over nineteen years this is the one
it only tree that I've ever seen and
grown that grew from seed naturally I
found it under a redwood and this is
three years old and this is a growth
this year that it put on just from
spring - now now this genetically
because it's one of a million that has
grown from seed would be a fantastic
seed if you wanted to clone
now the way I clone redwoods and I've
done thousands of them I've done cloning
ferp to another system so I take a
little thing like this and I stripped
these needles off and I get a knife I
found out there was better to cut it at
a slant so it's like a wedge and then I
dip it into a septic so it doesn't rot
and then I have a mix of perlite and
peat moss for a medium that I stick it
in I dip it into a hormone and na stick
it and within six weeks I got a wart and
then within 12 weeks you got roots and
within two years you have a tree that's
twice as big than grown from seed I was
getting 85 90 percent success and to get
that kind of rate of success you have to
be do the process that I just described
but now this is a conifer and it's
Douglas fir and I did 2,000 clones of
this for my own use this is a one tree
out of 40,000 that made the best
Christmas tree and when I took the
cutting I'm taking this and I'm trying
to make a career out of this the genetic
characteristic of this thing is a branch
right I took it off of a race well this
thing the top wants to be a bridge that
is thinking 20 years to get it into a
tree it's finally recognizing that it
needs to straighten itself out and now
it's starting to create a leader so the
tree can't figure out where's the main
stem and and if Keith wanted to be a
branch this whole thing is you Christmas
trees yeah I did forty thousand that's
how we earned a living we sold a
thousand six hundred a year I'm mom and
pop we made sixty five thousand bucks in
1993 out of Christmas tree lot that's
how he paid the farm is through
Christmas trees so you can love the
trees but also use them to make a living
here we got bare land
it's got no trees on it we plant four
thousand trees per acre so now we got
trees growing so all of these trees are
actually doing
an official for the environment you have
to understand the ecology and what's
good for the ecology and let decision
based on environmental factors rather
than profitability the short-term gains
are not good for forest management you
have to look at a horizon of about 75 to
100 years you can't look for the
quarterly dividend on their stock see
that cluster of trees there there's
probably 10,000 dollars worth of timber
but you take an old-growth tree there
were 250 to 300 thousands per tree and
that was that was like 40 years ago so
they see that's why people that you know
why does the man that owned a piece of
land have a right to something that's
2,500 years old that should belong to
the people I always say it's very
unfortunate that that when Teddy
Roosevelt Muir Woods when they were
saving Yosemite and all did they need to
make a proclamation and say every
redwood tree that's so big or so tall or
so old is a historical monument take
them out of the public domain see it
would be wonderful to have a thousand
trees like this and this property could
do that and then what a park it would
make
now I'm trying to create a way to create
an income for the people that will take
on this operation after I am deceased
and in order to do that lamping or
camping is allowed can you imagine
coming out of urban life working all day
on a computer with a thousand people and
noise and what have you spend a weekend
here privacy no noise
there's logging operations going all
around me and you don't even know it I
mean this is absolutely
I thought the logging industry was going
to be a problem but it certainly isn't
see this is some furniture I'm doing
it's a redwood tree that sliced see this
tree had a fire so the tree is trying to
kill so these things came up around this
dead core until they met and then the
rings are going in a circle so it healed
so this will always be here but the tree
itself is not affected by this injury it
healed itself well here again these are
Redwood grounds see the log got cut and
I sliced them can then laid them out but
this little stone why you like to sit
where where you're feeling embraced so
I'm introducing landscaping of native
plants I got rhododendron i got
rhododendron there and this is a
beautiful tree now this is old cand then
there's bay laurel there so in the
evening you've got the sound of the
water and you got the fragrance of the
bay laurel this is going to be the bath
house there's a me composting toilet
there's gonna be a on demand hot water
system a wash basin a little deck come
up on the deck and you've got a view of
the river from the potty
you know the idea is to try to make it
so that your senses are kind of pleasing
I think it would be fantastic for a
weekend getaway
there are so many elements that are
contrary to the future of people having
a productive healthy life now alone corn
will not pollinate so what I do with
that kind of get this pollen on my palm
and I come over here and I hand
pollinate I kind of touch the silk like
that you take the food production
because there's so many people it's
become industrialized to where the soils
have no minerals the minerals in the
food you bite they're full of chemicals
this is a blueberry raspberry and
boysenberries I have about ten pounds of
frozen blueberries you see you just
can't buy stuff with the same flavor
we were canning our record for
applesauce 157 quarts in one morning we
can a hundred gallons of apple juice in
one day and we made the machines to do
it with I would see you can't do this
without machinery the first thing I
bought when I had no money was a backhoe
and because that made the difference of
20 30 40 people
so rather than being in a commune with a
hundred people I've got back Oh Cindy
seven cats and dumb and so then I had
the skills I had the background and so
the equipment made the difference he
didn't remember again she and I
built all this just the wife and I van
array and I built this by ourselves this
whole building and these buildings here
there was nothing here but yeah it is
I bought the frame the metal and then
these are all works in progress
potential projects here for coffee
tables and even jewelry I've got here a
little scraps that could be kind of this
has character that could be something so
all of this stuff is is wood that's
growing look at this stuff it's
beautiful this is going to be kind of a
side table all these these are potential
projects there's sculptors all over the
place and I don't sell anything and then
these the drawers are all full of extra
things and these are saw blades and
these are used spark plugs this is a
motor pump that actually is pumping
water out of the river
it's a backup motor I always like to
have one or two of everything in case
something goes wrong I'm not going to
run out of water
we made 157 quarts of apple sauce one
morning by using this machine to make
the apples to chop them up these chairs
I'm kind of modifying them generators
it's propane and then this is a for
manufacturing there's a machines to cut
steel and iron and welding and so I can
do anything I want in steel copper brass
wood concrete so I can build buildings
out of concrete and so I have the skills
for all of that you know what happens a
young man comes out of education in
education they sort of emphasize
artistic beauty and all that you get out
in the real world and architects is
nothing but a bookkeeper you don't get
to really express yourself and then here
I could take it from the tree cut the
lumber to
sighs to mill it to what I wanted right
to the finish and I could have control
all the way and that was cool
so these chairs kind of made this so
they're easy you got handles what's
interesting is they're made out same
board you get one board and cut it up in
different ways than you make a chair the
legs are 14 inches the seats 14 the
backs 14 12 screws put the chair
together they're real easy to build and
then this is a growth ring this is in
the winter where it grows very slow and
hard and the summer grows fast and soft
I build a lot of these I build maybe 15
of them some of them are 30 40 years old
steel Holly
yeah depends some people you know they
like to get in a chair and they like to
go this you know they're leaning back
and I'm thinking this is sort of lived
this life expectancy just ready to come
down it was built to last for as a
temporary building and it's been here 51
years so well depends you could make it
less or a thousand years but you could
make it all so that it Liz 10 years they
don't you know they you can choose I
started doing this maybe 10 years ago I
did one sculpture the very first
sculpture was this one over here
and I thought well that's pretty cool so
then I started doing more pretty soon
I've got like 20 30 40 of these and I
just said well you know I need a place
to put them and then I built the gallery
to have a place to put them I take
pieces of wood that already have
character and I don't really I'm not
really a creator I'm an improviser
here's a piece of wood laying on the
ground it looks like a rotten piece of
wood I thought well I'm gonna throw that
in the fire
yeah well since I'm throwing a fire what
the hell get the chase on I'm starting
carving it and then these are chainsaw
marks now this one here it took me like
two years
and I'd walk around it and one day I
said oh yeah it would because I didn't
want to do any harm so I said okay it'd
be good to cut this little piece off
here
six months later I'd cut a little piece
and oh yeah okay this table is a root
the trunk is right here I found it in a
river and I told it out and it set out
there for like ten years in the rain
then when we built the house it was
perfect so what I did I sliced it and
then these parts all come off see the
glass is one piece and that the parts
just come off so it was very difficult
in sight this is getting big how big you
got to make it manageable to be able to
take it off and these are getting small
the glass keeps that the effect of water
almost well yeah it looks like a pond
with Islands one of the greatest
teachers in the world is nature let's
look at it a seashell let's look at the
hyperbolic paraboloid mathematical
equations look like the bees and the
construction of the honeycomb nature if
we think of and look at nature nature
smart nature does things in a very
important way and we are not smarter
than nature we often think we are but
we're not
and so that's your schools look at these
shapes look at the negative the
background look at the foreground and
see how all the variations again.we
variations and repetition create a music
and and whether it's art or architecture
and I can explain it in this law these
there's a repetition of these elements
going down then we go around the wall
and we started out looking you know they
don't leave its boom boom boom for the
knock on the door so boom boom boom -
see I got I've got one two three one two
three four senility now here's a pair
you know
boom boom this is kind of like the drums
beating this is a beautiful little thing
I mean we rated here you know I
developed a system of stone creat this
is structural then array and I from this
wall here to the fireplace over here we
did it in two days half one day and half
the next day what happens with stone
walls normally we have what's called
masonry and you have a mortar that's
made out of sand and lime and cement the
mortar in an earthquake rattles and
falls apart this is a stone-faced
concrete wall and this is structural
this actually takes the lateral loads
meaning when an earthquake loads are
being taken through the diaphragm this
roof is a diaphragm and all the forces
are spread out among this curvilinear
form you know I develop my own
philosophies and my own ways through
trial and error and through experience
and so then you know I have my own way
oh look what's interesting see that tank
over there is a reserve tank and waters
bubbling over it so the solar pump is
now pushing too much water out of an
extra I've got five different reserve
tanks I got a solar pump that's pumping
out of the river and that's for
irrigation and then I have drinking
water coming out of the mountain up
there two separate system wonderful
water for drinking coming right out of
the mountain up there I done to cave
into the mountain I have the water pipe
from there and goes down here goes up
the mountain up there
I did this in one day by myself my wife
had leukemia and I was the only one she
put water in the mixer
this whole wall including the benches
were done in one day by myself
that's how efficient this can be I can't
believe what we did just the two of us
without having any professional help or
anybody you got to remember we were
doing dawn-to-dusk for 43 years seven
days a week how many people are prepared
to do that and yet it was fun so this is
a second glamping site I did all by him
you wouldn't believe what I was doing
here by myself the kitchen's gonna be
below got water coming around this hose
I'm thinking of putting a sink here and
you wash and then you take this bolt and
you go out and dump it on a fern so
you're not dumping it in the river and
so and then there'll be a burner and
then I had to bring stones down and
build this little wall you see in order
to avoid a tunnel effect I could have
brought this all the way out there but
it would have spook you from up there
looking down the river so I've kept that
back and then I created this frame for a
composition you're not in a cave you're
out here and you can feel the openness
and the softness of change from inside
to outside this was so much fun working
here look at the maple just sort of
waving I love the textures here you got
the thimble berries that are wide leaf
and then you have the tiny texture you
got a Fivefinger ferns then you got the
horse growing on the
I think this is awesome you see
basically these houses don't need any
kind of adornment
[Applause]
this is a bonsai it's it's 51 years old
and then some it was here when we came
on the land last year it was a beautiful
bonsai see last year it had a root right
here and at that torn off this thing was
up it was kind of like this so he got
wiped out with the high water the root
there's a link still anchored there and
that's Hayling nest together so I
couldn't it a little bit and trying to
get the bonsai back there used to be
hundreds of little tiny fries and
fingerlings right in here there's a
seven-year cycle between the egg and
there's three thousand eggs that are
hatched three out of three thousand
survived and come back to spawn there's
a cycle of birth' roll decline and dying
there's no big deal people make a big
deal we're all going through that cycle
I'm actually okay if I were to pass away
tomorrow because I've done what I wanted
to do I put this little shelf in here
and here it is you know maybe 35 years
and still here here it is under water
and and I didn't think it would last
[Applause]
I got to do things here that I couldn't
have done so basically this is a very
good thing for me so for my own
satisfaction and look from nothing no
money we are able to accumulate on less
over a lifetime
that's too bad that I can't start all
over again and go from here I thought
could go 50 years from here forward oh
man I just can't dream of what this
could be like but I can't I just don't
have I could I could save trees for a
thousand years by putting them in a
legal form but I can't live that long
but you know what in my mind I can see
what it could look like so I start a
process that I can enjoy because I can
see what the potential is so now every
one of these tags see that team tag
there that tree can never be cut it
doesn't belong to the land anymore
belong so the nonprofit that was there I
have a thousand of those the light tips
are all this year's growth now the trees
that have that strucker's points are the
ones that are growing the fastest the
ones are more roundish or slower growing
I could go on and tell you so much about
we could be here till midnight
[Music]
[Laughter]